# Differential network analysis to find gene clusters correlated to abiotic stress in plants.

Weighted Correlation Network Analysis (WGCNA) can be used for finding clusters (modules) of highly correlated genes, summarizing such clusters using the module eigengene or intramodular hub genes, for relating modules to one another and external sample traits, and calculating module membership measures. It is a type of analysis based on correlation coefficients between different samples. The correlation coefficient is the closest relationship that presents two variables, this is measured in Pearson, Spearman, and Kendal (Chengcheng et al., 2022; Sahai et al., 2018)(Chengcheng et al., 2022; Sahai et al., 2018). It is used to evaluate gene expression patterns, where those most similar to each other are grouped into a module. This relationship also allows associating characteristics, as genes concentrated in a module may be involved in the same biological process or signaling pathway.

Here we use the WGCNA to find correlated genes in multiple abiotic stress in plants. We test seven different stress treatments in citrus plants: water stress (WS), high irradiance/light (HL), heat stress (HS), high irradiance and heat stress combination (HL + HS), water stress and high irradiance combination (WS + HL), water stress and heat stress combination (WS + HS) and the combination of water stress, high light and heat stress.  The count data and metadata were taken from: Damián Balfagón, Zandalinas, S. I., dos, T., Claudete Santa‐Catarina, & Gómez‐Cadenas, A. (2022). Reduction of heat stress pressure and activation of photosystem II repairing system are crucial for citrus tolerance to multiple abiotic stress combinations. Physiologia Plantarum, 174(6). https://doi.org/10.1111/ppl.13809 and from the Gene Expression Omnibus Data (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE203331) 

‌
